Create release-3.37.md (#5138)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2022/release-3.37.md

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 release'
publishDate: 2021-09-20T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 introduces UPDATE'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.37'
published: false
heroImage:
socialImage:
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 3.37 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

> ## Feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Feature

### Code intelligence just got a whole lot faster!
We're pleased to announce that LSIF index processing and the symbols sidebar just got a whole lot faster! Earlier, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, that's no longer the case! Most indices should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise code intelligence soon after uploading an index.

<img class="blog-image" title="LSIF upload speedup" alt="Comparative chart before and after processing improvements." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/lsif-upload-speedup.png">

The symbols sidebar also got a significant performance boost. Previously, the symbols sidebar would search for symbols in the whole directory tree even if you were only looking at a subdirectory or file, which would cause it to time out and show an error message on big monorepos. Now prefix queries like `^src/app` are better optimized and subdirectory searches are much faster and less likely to time out.

```

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 release'
publishDate: 2022-02-22T10:00-07:00
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 introduces performance improvements for Code Intelligence, sharing for Notebooks, and a new UI for creating search contexts.'
tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.37'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/sourcegraph-3-37-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/sourcegraph-3-37-release.png
changelogItems:
  - description: 'Code in search results is now selectable for easier copying and reuse. You can still click on the code to open the corresponding file.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30033
    category: Search
  - description: 'Query-based search contexts are now enabled by default as a beta feature, making it easier to scope queries for monorepos or large codebases.'
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts
    category: Search

>   - description: 'GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older the one specified, to allow for pagination.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - description: 'GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older than the one specified, to allow for pagination.'
```

>     url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/

Author: ```suggestion
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31219
```

    category: API
  - description: Fixed a race condition in the precise Code Intelligence upload expiry process that prematurely expired new uploads.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30546
    category: Code Intelligence
  - description: 'Fixed performance issue in LSIF upload processing, reducing the latency between uploading an LSIF index and accessing precise Code Intelligence in the UI.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31143
    category: Code Intelligence
---

Sourcegraph 3.37 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

> ## Code Intelligence LSIF indexing time has been reduced over 90%

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - "Code Intelligence LSIF indexing time has been reduced by over 90%" 

If we went from ~15 minutes to 30 seconds, could we also say 30x faster? Does that sound too big to be realistic?

Author: @abschu I don't think it's too big, I just wasn't really sure how the math worked to say "X times faster" for a reduction in time. Logically though you could index a file 30 times over in the time it took to index 1 previously, so I think that's accurate to say

Author: We could say this instead:

```suggestion
## Code Intelligence LSIF indexing is now 30x faster
```

Reviewer 4: The math does work out. Maybe let's just say both?

```suggestion
## Code Intelligence LSIF indexing time has improved 30x (from 15m to 30s)
```

Reviewer 4: Alternatively, we could include the specifics in the paragraph below.

LSIF index processing just got a whole lot faster, so you can upload your indexes and start utilizing precise Code Intelligence immediately. Previously, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise Code Intelligence soon after uploading an index.

<img class="blog-image" title="LSIF upload speedup" alt="Comparative chart before and after processing improvements." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/lsif-upload-speedup.png">

> The symbols sidebar also got a significant performance boost. Previously, the symbols sidebar would search for symbols in the whole directory tree even if you were only looking at a subdirectory or file, which would cause it to time out and show an error message on big monorepos. Now prefix queries like `^src/app` are better optimized and subdirectory searches are much faster and less likely to time out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The symbols sidebar also got a significant performance boost. Previously, the symbols sidebar would search for symbols in the whole directory tree, even if you were only looking at a subdirectory or file, which would cause it to time out and show an error message on big monorepos. Now prefix queries like `^src/app` are better optimized and subdirectory searches are much faster and less likely to time out.
```

<img class="blog-image" title="Symbol's sidebar improvement" alt="Comparative chart before and after symbol improvements." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/symbols-sidebar-improvement.png">

## Share Notebooks with your organization

Notebooks are now shareable within organizations. Previously, you could only share Notebooks with your entire instance (or share them publicly, in the case of Sourcegraph Cloud). This update allows you to create Notebooks with specific relevance to your organization, such as documentation of preferred engineering patterns or anti-patterns. Your organization's shared Notebooks will now show up in their own tabs on the [Notebooks home page](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks).

> <img class="blog-image" title="Notebooks sharing" alt="Image of Notebooks sharing modal." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/notebooks/notebook_sharing.png">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div style="text-align:center">
<img class="blog-image" title="Notebooks sharing" alt="Image of Notebooks sharing modal." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/notebooks/notebook_sharing.png">
</div>
```
This image is left aligned for some reason. This appears to fix it

> ## Import and export Notebooks as markdown

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import and export Notebooks as Markdown
```

> Notebooks can now be created by uploading a markdown file, so if you're already working with markdown documentation files, you can simply upload those files to add Sourcegraph snippets and turn them into full-fledged Notebooks. You can also export Notebooks to markdown, allowing you to turn Sourcegraph Notebooks into repo-based markdown files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notebooks can now be created by uploading a Markdown file, so if you're already working with Markdown documentation files, you can simply upload those files to add Sourcegraph snippets and turn them into full-fledged Notebooks. You can also export Notebooks to Markdown, allowing you to turn Sourcegraph Notebooks into repo-based Markdown files.
```

## Create search contexts with the new UI

The search contexts creation UI has received visual tweaks, making it easier to understand if you're using search queries or JSON to define your contexts. We've also added guidance on valid expressions for query-based contexts to make the creation process clearer.

> <img class="blog-image" title="Search contexts type selection" alt="Screenshot of search contexts configuration UI." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/search_contexts/select_context_type.png">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div style="text-align:center">
<img class="blog-image" title="Search contexts type selection" alt="Screenshot of search contexts configuration UI." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/search_contexts/select_context_type.png">
</div>
```
Same with this one

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 release'
publishDate: 2022-02-22T10:00-07:00

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 introduces performance improvements for Code Intellgience, sharing functionality for Notebooks, and a new UI for creating search contexts.'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.37 introduces performance improvements for Code Intellgience, sharing for Notebooks, and a new UI for creating search contexts.'
```

tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.37'
published: false
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/sourcegraph-3-37-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/sourcegraph-3-37-release.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: 'Code in search results is now selectable (e.g. for copying). Just clicking on the code continues to open the corresponding file as it did before.'

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - is copying the only use case? If, so we can just say "Code in search results is now selectable for easier copying and reuse."

I also added "reuse" - does that feel too forced? 

"You can still click on the code to open the corresponding file."

Author: @abschu Yes, just for copying. I don't think resuse is too forced; that's the core use case here (copy+paste / reuse without having to go into the file).

```suggestion
  - description: 'Code in search results is now selectable for easier copying and reuse. You can still click on the code to open the corresponding file.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30033
    category: Search

>  - description: "Query-based search contexts are now enabled by default as a beta feature, making it easier to scope queries for monorepos or large codebases."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - description: "Query-based search contexts are now enabled by default as a beta feature, making it easier to scope queries for monorepos or large codebases."
```

    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/search_contexts#beta-query-based-search-contexts
    category: Search

>   - description: 'Search Notebooks now support importing and exporting Markdown-formatted files.'

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - any benefit to elaborate on here?

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/28586
    category: Search

>   - description: 'GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older the one specified, to allow for pagination. TODO'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - description: 'GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older than the one specified, to allow for pagination. TODO'
```
@iskyOS - this still says TODO.

Author: I haven't been able to find the corresponding PR (it said TODO in the changelog) — I've asked the engineer to provide it

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: 'GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older the one specified, to allow for pagination.'
```

>   - description: "GraphQL API: The order of events returned by `MonitorTriggerEventConnection` has been reversed so newer events are returned first. The `after` parameter has been modified accordingly to return events older the one specified, to allow for pagination. TODO"

Reviewer 4: Why does this say TODO?

Author: @jyavorska I'm guessing it's because the engineer planned to revisit it to add a PR link. I've messaged them to find the correct PR

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/
    category: API

>   - description: Fixed a race condition in the precise code intel upload expiry process that prematurely expired new uploads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a race condition in the precise Code Intelligence upload expiry process that prematurely expired new uploads.
```

>   - description: Fixed a race condition in the precise code intel upload expirer process that prematurely expired new uploads.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - description: Fixed a race condition in the precise code intel upload expiry process that prematurely expired new uploads.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30546
    category: Code Intelligence

>   - description: 'Fixed performance issue in LSIF upload processing, reducing the latency between uploading an LSIF index and accessing precise code intel in the UI.'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Fixed performance issue in LSIF upload processing, reducing the latency between uploading an LSIF index and accessing precise Code Intelligence in the UI.'
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31143
    category: Code Intelligence

>   - description: 'Removed `experimentalFeature.showCodeMonitoringTestEmailButton`. Test emails can still be sent by editing the code monitor and expanding the "Send email notification" section.'

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - What exactly changed here? Is this an update we need to include in the release post?

Author: @abschu It was a UI tweak — previously there was a button to send test emails, but it was behind an experimental flag. Now the test email button has moved and is on by default. Functionally it isn't a big change; it wouldn't adversely effect anyone if we didn't highlight it

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/29953
    category: Code Monitors
---

Sourcegraph 3.37 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

> ## Code Intelligence just got a whole lot faster

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - can you quantify this? Otherwise, specify what is faster - indexes are now processed in minutes?

Author: ```suggestion
## Code Intelligence LSIF indexing time has been reduced over 90%
```

> We're pleased to announce that LSIF index processing just got a whole lot faster! Earlier, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise code intelligence soon after uploading an index.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We're pleased to announce that LSIF index processing just got a whole lot faster! Earlier, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise Code Intelligence soon after uploading an index.
```

Instead of saying "we're pleased to announce," it'd be great to lead with the customer benefit (eg using precise Code Intelligence immediately after uploading an index).

Author: ```suggestion
LSIF index processing just got a whole lot faster, so you can upload your indexes and start utilizing precise Code Intelligence immediately. Previously, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise Code Intelligence soon after uploading an index.
```

> We're pleased to announce that LSIF index processing and the symbols sidebar just got a whole lot faster! Earlier, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise code intelligence soon after uploading an index.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We're pleased to announce that LSIF index processing just got a whole lot faster! Earlier, certain LSIF indexes, especially for Javascript and Typescript, could take over 30 minutes to process. This meant that a long queue would build up with frequent uploads, such as those from a CI job that runs on every commit on a development branch. Now, most indexes should be processed in a few seconds instead of minutes so that you can access precise code intelligence soon after uploading an index.
```

<img class="blog-image" title="LSIF upload speedup" alt="Comparative chart before and after processing improvements." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/lsif-upload-speedup.png">

> The symbols sidebar also got a significant performance boost. Previously, the symbols sidebar would search for symbols in the whole directory tree even if you were only looking at a subdirectory or file, which would cause it to time out and show an error message on big monorepos. Now prefix queries like `^src/app` are better optimized and subdirectory searches are much faster and less likely to time out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The symbols sidebar also got a significant performance boost. Previously, the symbols sidebar would search for symbols in the whole directory tree even if you were only looking at a subdirectory or file, which would cause it to time out and show an error message on big monorepos. Now prefix queries like `^src/app` are better optimized and subdirectory searches are much faster and less likely to time out.

<img class="blog-image" title="Symbol's sidebar improvement" alt="Comparative chart before and after symbol improvements." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.37/symbols-sidebar-improvement.png">
```

## Share Notebooks with your organization

> Notebooks are now shareable within organizations. Previously, you could only share Notebooks with your entire instance (or share them publicly, in the case of Sourcegraph Cloud). This update allows you to create Notebooks with specific relevance to your organization, such as documentation of preferred engineering patterns or anti-patterns. Organizations' shared notebooks will now show up in their own tabs on the [Notebooks home page](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notebooks are now shareable within organizations. Previously, you could only share Notebooks with your entire instance (or share them publicly, in the case of Sourcegraph Cloud). This update allows you to create Notebooks with specific relevance to your organization, such as documentation of preferred engineering patterns or anti-patterns. Your organization's shared Notebooks will now show up in their own tabs on the [Notebooks home page](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks).
```

> Notebooks are now shareable within Sourcegraph organizations. Previously, you could only share Notebooks with your entire instance (or share them publicly in the case of Sourcegraph Cloud). This update allows you to create Notebooks for organizational knowledge within your team, such as documentation of preferred engineering patterns or anti-patterns. Organizations' shared notebooks will now show up in their own tabs on the [Notebooks home page](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Notebooks are now shareable within organizations. Previously, you could only share Notebooks with your entire instance (or share them publicly, in the case of Sourcegraph Cloud). This update allows you to create Notebooks with specific relevance to your organization, such as documentation of preferred engineering patterns or anti-patterns. Organizations' shared notebooks will now show up in their own tabs on the [Notebooks home page](https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks).
```

<img class="blog-image" title="Notebooks sharing" alt="Image of Notebooks sharing modal." src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/notebooks/notebook_sharing.png">

> ## Import and export Notebooks as markdown

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - This is also in the changelog portion. I can't remember if we include things in both the changelog section and the highlights section.

Author: @abschu We have once or twice before that I can find, but I don't think we've standardized on one method of doing it. Since we're prioritizing having a short changelog section with only the top items, I think it makes sense to not have redundancy
